[Music]
if you wake up in the middle of an
unbeatable maze that's always
changing and is filled with bloodthirsty
monsters what do you do
the secret behind why you're here is
terrifying and you'll have to overcome
the most impossible odds to get out of
this
alive i'm going to break down the
mistakes made what you should do and how
to beat the death mace in maze runner
this kid has a one-way ticket to hell he
wakes up in an elevator with no idea how
he got here when suddenly the doors open
and he sees a group of boys staring down
at him
he's pulled out of the shaft and the
group surrounds him but he's completely
overwhelmed scared for his life he runs
across the field in a panic but stops as
he realizes there's nowhere to go
four massive walls surround them and
everyone here is trapped inside
with only one way out he's thrown and
locked into a pit with no idea what's
going on when alby the leader of the
boys comes to introduce himself
he asks the kid if he knows where he
came from but he can't even remember his
own name
the leader assures him the same thing
happened to everyone else here and takes
him on a tour
of their community he learns that every
month the elevator sends up fresh
supplies and a new recruit but they
still haven't figured out why
they climb up to a watchtower and that's
where alby here lays down the three
rules he must obey
everyone must contribute to the
community no one's allowed to hurt each
other and never go beyond the walls
but the leader has no idea that in six
days this place will be swarming with
deadly monsters
and everyone will be breaking these
rules to stay alive
okay as far as death traps go this could
be a lot worse
if i had a choice to be stuck in a
school and forced to kill my classmates
or stuck in central park forced to pick
berries and build tree houses
this seems like a pretty sweet deal but
there's one horrifying detail here that
can't be overlooked
alby here told us that everyone who
comes up through this elevator doesn't
remember
anything about their past and this is a
dead giveaway about what this place
really is
these kids are experiencing what's
called retrograde amnesia which prevents
you from recalling memories that were
formed before whatever caused it but it
can't remove all memories from your
entire life
since all their memories are completely
gone we can deduce that this wasn't
triggered by any natural causes like a
head injury trauma or dementia
they still have their regular motor
functions and language but also
their critical thinking ability in the
prefrontal cortex is completely intact
that means that they can respond to a
problem and solve it just as well as
they could before but without the help
of their memories
if only the specific parts of the brain
that control memory are affected the
only logical alternative is that our
memories are being intentionally and
forcefully erased
now alby here told us that they're given
supplies in a new recruit every month
and judging by how many kids are here
that's a lot of months to accumulate
this many people
if they've been here this long then
whoever's wiping our memories wants to
keep us alive long enough to observe our
behavior
because they're sending supplies this
gives me enough to assume that someone
is studying us like mice in the world's
most expensive science experiment and
just like mice in a lab it means we're
all expendable for the purposes of
scientific discovery
later the new kid goes to check out the
gate and sees two boys running through
the walls opening
he asks his little kid chuck why they're
allowed to leave and he's told
only the runners can go into the maze
curious the kid walks out to take a
closer look but as soon
as he reaches the opening he gets shoved
to the ground he jumps up to defend
himself but the others run in to try and
calm him down
that's when the leader insists they
can't let him leave but suddenly he
hears a roar coming from deep within the
maze and the wall begins to close shut
something dangerous is waiting for
anyone who tries to escape and when they
finally face it only nine of them will
survive
that night they have a bonfire to
celebrate this month's shipment of
supplies
the second in command newt sits at the
new kid and tells him about the runners
their job is to map out the entirety of
the maze beyond the wall but they've
been here for three years
and still haven't found a way out every
single night the maze changes its layout
with monsters inside called grievers
that will kill anyone in its path but no
one's ever seen them and
lived the second in command leads him
through the celebration explaining they
all have different jobs in the community
but that's when gally the chief builder
wants to see what he's made of and picks
a fight and the new kid
accepts the challenge they start to
wrestle and he quickly gets knocked to
the ground but when he hits his head he
suddenly remembers that his name
is thomas okay our memory is slowly
coming back but if it's me
i don't care what my name is because i'm
way more concerned about these monsters
we were just told about
this is not just a social experiment
this is a proper death scenario and if
we aren't doing everything we can to
eliminate these monsters and escape this
place then even your name is a waste of
time
now normally as soon as i realized my
life is in danger i'd be sacrificing
everyone here to stay alive but
unfortunately it appears we're going to
be needing them
we have no choice but to work together
as a team for survival so everything
here needs to be looked at like it's a
valuable resource and that includes the
people in this maze
with a death trap this big there's no
way one person can beat this alone so
the faster we make friends the sooner
they can help us escape before we need
to use them as meat shields
now as organized as they all appear to
be there's a lot of evidence that
suggests these guys are getting
complacent
they've been here for three years
already and the labor groups that
they've organized themselves into are
all for sustainable living and
not for escaping there's a whole team of
builders and all they've done is build
houses a prison and a town hall for
their weekly talent shows
if they're here another year they might
build a bank in a grocery store and
that's really the wrong attitude to have
when monsters are at your doorstep
the next day the leader formally
welcomes a new kid into the tribe and
gives him a knife to carve his name into
the wall
thomas notices that several names have
been scratched out and is told that
those are all the people who died since
the leader arrived here
later the new kid is put to work in the
garden and asks the second
in command if anyone has tried climbing
the wall the boy tells him it's
impossible to climb because the ivy
doesn't go all the way to the top
he tries to suggest another idea but is
quickly shut down as the kid insists
they tried tons of things to escape and
none of them have worked
the second in command suggests he helps
him out by digging up fertilizer from
the woods
okay i know this kid is new but if i
were him i would be calling bullsh
this guy just told us that the vines
don't reach the top except they must not
have looked very hard
because i can see right here that they
definitely do now even though newt here
is wrong about the vines not reaching
the top he would definitely be right to
say
that it's a terrible idea even if you
could climb the vines it would take an
extremely skilled athlete with
guerilla-sized forearms to actually make
it to the top without falling to your
death because this wall is insanely high
in comparison to the average 16 year old
male which is 68 inches
this wall must be roughly 200 to 300
feet tall and that's the same height as
the statue of liberty
having said that there are still plenty
of other things we should try here
because reaching the top might tell us
more about this death trap than they've
learned in over three years
now a ladder might seem like an obvious
choice but this would actually be a
terrible idea
it's too narrow which makes it unstable
and the structure isn't designed to
support the length but there's another
option they've seriously overlooked here
bamboo can be used to build scaffolding
structures as high as 60 stories which
is twice the height of this wall
hong kong still uses this technique
today for both construction
and renovation and it's extremely strong
and reliable the great thing is that
they already have bamboo as we can see
right here and if they don't have enough
they wouldn't have to wait for very long
to get more because bamboo
is one of the fastest growing plants on
earth these things can grow up to three
feet per day and they even self-multiply
because it reproduces through rhizomes
i would suggest that we destroy this
ridiculous town hall they've built
themselves and use the corner of these
two walls for extra structural support
by using the vines to tie the shoots
together they could build themselves
something that the chinese have been
doing for hundreds of years
and finally reach the top now don't get
me wrong because it would still be
incredibly difficult and
dangerous to build for a bunch of kids
who haven't done it before but if they
haven't tried it then i'll win the
argument against this kid and his no can
do attitude and he can go and fetch his
own fertilizer from now on
thomas here is sent into the forest to
gather more fertilizer for their crops
and on the way
he finds one of the runners standing
still in the woods he asks if the guy is
okay but suddenly gets tackled to the
ground
the runner yells that this is all his
fault and the new kid has to bash his
head with a goat skull to get free
he's chased into the clearing where he
calls for help and is rescued by the
second in command who knocks the crazed
runner off of him
holding the boy down the group discovers
that he's been stung by a griever and
the others carry him to the pit
to keep the runner under observation
thomas here has no idea why the guy
accused him but he'll soon discover that
he knows a lot more about this place
than he realizes
later the poisoned runner is taken to
the mazes entrance and this kid minho
throws a bag through the opening the
boys start pushing the runner towards
the labyrinth and as the doors begin to
close they banish him to face the
grievers alone
okay that was a very logical thing to do
in this situation
now alby here has already witnessed the
terrible things that happen when someone
gets stung and it's the reason they're
always banished to the maze
he insists that nothing good comes from
keeping them inside but i think there
are a few problems with his theory
once he changes he will get stronger and
more dangerous and that's absolutely
great news
because this means we can use him as a
weapon of self-defense
if all of these crossed out names of
people were used as an army of the dead
this would be a much more useful way to
deal with them
i would chain them all to the walls of
the maze so that if a griever ever tries
to attack us we'll have advance warning
and they'll have to get through all of
our stun friends before they can get in
under the circumstances if i was about
to die and i knew that even in my death
i was still protecting my brothers from
the grievers i would definitely choose
that over
any other option the next morning he
wakes up and sees the runners leave the
glade along with the leader alby
he asks the second in command why
someone that important would risk his
life
and finds out he's gone to figure out
how that runner got stung
later that day the boys wait by the maze
entrance for the runners to return but
they're late and the group starts to get
worried that something terrible has
happened
thomas here suggests they send someone
to find them but the second in command
refuses
they won't let anyone risk their lives
and the gates begin to close
that's when thomas spots the runners on
the other side and sees minho
dragging the leader towards the glade
everyone knows they won't make it but
the new kid refuses to leave them behind
he runs into the maze and reaches the
other side just before the wall slams
shut now all three of them are trapped
inside where no one has ever survived
the night
okay this was the mother of all bad
ideas
this idiot rushed into the maze with no
time to help them to safety and didn't
even bother bringing them weapons or
resources to survive the night
now if i was minho here i would be
trying to hide a big fat smile because
now i have not just one but
two bodies that i could use as meat
shields to feed to the grievers and run
away
his chances of survival have just
doubled and might become the only person
to ever survive the maze at night
now these runners are like soldiers and
even when it's not the most logical
thing to do for survival
they will risk their lives to save their
brothers if it were me however
i would have let the leader for dead and
use his own rules to justify it
just yesterday they banished this runner
to the maze because he was stung
so by the leader's own logic he
shouldn't be let into the glade anyways
now there's a glaring problem here that
needs to be addressed because after
three years of running through the maze
it's very likely that the situation has
happened before
if i was a runner i would have dug a
tunnel under the maze entrance here
so that if we ever got caught on the
wrong side there was still a way to
reach the glade safely
considering how many people have
apparently been stung before we would
learn that these things are actually
massive spider-like creatures that
wouldn't be able to fit inside a
human-sized tunnel
with this in mind it would also be smart
to use these tunnels to make shortcuts
in the maze so that they can both evade
grievers and also to explore further
into the maze quicker than ever before
it's honestly shocking how little
they've done in three years to prepare
for situations just like this
thomas here asks the runner what
happened and finds out the leader got
stung by a monster but they suddenly
hear a roar in the distance
something is coming and minho says they
have to leave but the new kid insists
they take the leader with them
going through the corridors they're
exhausted from carrying the boy and with
the grievers getting closer the new kid
suggests they need to hide him
the runner tells them there's nothing
they can do but when thomas notices a
wall covered in ivy
he suddenly has an idea they tie the
leader to the vines and lift him up the
wall to safety but the runner notices a
shape in the distance
terrified the boy leaves the new kid
behind and he has no choice but to slip
underneath the ivy to hide
the monster approaches and the kid sees
its metallic legs pass by but the
griever doesn't notice him or the leader
hanging from the wall
coming out of hiding he thinks the coast
is clear but when he turns around
the griever lunges at him and the kid
runs further into the maze
suddenly he bumps into the runner and
together the boys cut through a closing
corridor but that's when thomas here has
another idea
seeing the griever come around a corner
he taunts it to lure through the closing
wall
following him in he runs as fast as he
can and manages to narrowly escape
his death the next morning the maze door
opens and the boys think their friends
didn't survive the night but just as
they're walking away the three kids
appear in the distance
they set the injured leader on the
ground as the runner tells them that
thomas here killed a griever in the maze
and all of them are speechless
okay nobody here has been brave enough
to even see a griever after three years
and this kid has already killed one in
less than three days
if that doesn't earn you instant respect
from these guys then i don't know what
does
but all this back padding is making us
forget a key detail here
if i was the new kid who just
accomplished the impossible i would be a
little pissed off right now
because when it mattered most min ho
here left this in the dust to save
himself
this highlights a serious problem
because he seems to be the only person
who knows the maze's layout
and if he's not trustworthy then that's
an unacceptable risk
just like how monks would copy documents
and manuscripts it should be mandatory
that everyone in this community
memorized the layout of this maze so
that no matter what happens it's never
lost
this information might be the most
valuable thing to our long-term survival
and it needs to be secured
if this runner has a habit of throwing
people under the bus when his life is in
danger then we need to make sure we'll
never have to rely on him for our
survival
ever again now thomas had some great
ideas that made him one of the first
people to ever survive a night in the
maze
using the vines to pull the leader to
safety was an excellent use of the
environment
to solve a life-threatening situation
but it also would have taken way too
long
first they had to find the right vine
tie him up and then pull him high enough
to the top so he's out of sight
when you're running for your life this
is poor time management and the
alternative
is so much easier it looks like there is
plenty of room to hide all three of them
under the vines here without having to
get creative
with a solution as obvious as this it
really makes you wonder how nobody
survived the night in the maze
because it's the maze runner equivalent
to the hiding under the bed and it was
still enough to trick this monster
i would have stayed here for the rest of
the night until the sun rose and walked
out of the maze a hero
all the boys gather in the town hall
where the chief builder holds a meeting
he thinks they should punish the new kid
for going into the maze without
permission
breaking the rules and killing grievers
could be dangerous but the others
disagree edmund ho here suggests they
make him a runner
galley argues his point but he's
interrupted when an alarm starts blaring
and they all rush outside to discover
that the elevator is 27 days
ahead of schedule inside the boys fight
an unconscious girl lying on the floor
and in her hand
is a note saying she's the last one ever
suddenly the girl wakes up and calls a
new kid by his name before passing out
the chief builder thinks something bad
is going to happen and that it's all
thomas's fault
the girl is taken to the medical hut and
she still hasn't woken up
thomas here asks the second in command
about the note he found but newt here
tries to downplay his worries and
believes once this girl wakes up
they'll get their answers the boy leaves
and heads to the maze to find out more
about the griever he killed and vinho
here wants to help
finding others to join them the group
enters the maze to look for answers and
reach the dead griever from last night
thomas here notices that there's
something flashing and the boys work
together to pull it out of the wall
the runner reaches into one of the
organs and finds an electric tracker
with the number 7
glowing on a display it's property of a
company called wckd or wicked and the
group decides to head back to the glade
before more grievers show up okay things
are getting interesting because this
is their first clue that might help them
escape but it's also going to scare a
lot of people in the community
from their perspective things are moving
way too fast and that makes the chief
builders hesitation
completely understandable the problem is
they're in the middle of a death game
and just because they don't make any
moves doesn't mean there isn't any
danger now this note here suggests the
maze creators won't send up any more
supplies or recruits
eventually there's going to be a
shortage of resources and that means we
now have a deadline to escape
i would immediately take inventory of
our supplies to calculate how much time
we have to live and to make sure we have
a plan before you run out of resources
and
die first we should have as many people
as possible traveling into the maze to
find an
exit but if we're going to be
encountering more grievers then we'll be
needing better weapons
they have bamboo spears which are very
strong but there's a way to make them
even more deadly
i would go back to the grievous corpse
and take its claws tie one tightly to
the end of my spear and encourage the
others to do the same
with eight claws to each griever we
could raise an army with a much better
chance at killing the other monsters we
encounter
the next thing i would investigate is
the elevator because if the last
shipment was sent then it won't cost us
anything to tamper with
the giant pulley here looks like it's
made of thick rope so i try to cut it
to free the cage from the elevator's
mechanics and it might let us use that
rope to manually lower someone down in
the cage
now this is obviously a dangerous
mission because hacking the elevator to
take the backdoor exit might be
considered cheating and whoever's
setting things up could be waiting below
to kill us when we reach the bottom
this is exactly why i would send someone
else on this mission but even in the
worst case scenario we're going to get
more information than we had before
based on how the maze creators respond
returning to the glade
they show the tracker to the second in
command and he realizes that whoever
made the grievers were the same
people who sent of the supplies the
chief builder argues the new kid should
be punished for breaking the glade's
rules
and newt here agrees but first decides
to make thomas a runner allowing him to
explore the rest of the maze
now officially a runner min ho brings
him into a hut revealing a huge model of
the maze
he's mapped every inch of the place and
there's no way out but hasn't told
anyone else in the glade
now that they've killed a griever the
runner has finally figured something out
that changes
everything the maze is divided into
several sections with numbers painted on
each wall from one to eight
a new section opens up every night in a
particular sequence and the griever they
killed must have come from section seven
he thinks if they investigate that
section they'll figure out what's going
on
that's when these boys come into the hut
and tell them that the girl
is awake they run outside and find the
girl throwing rocks at the others from
the watchtower but when thomas calls out
his name
she stops he climbs up the tower to talk
and she has no idea who anyone is
but knows her name is teresa he asks
what else she remembers
and she recalls a woman saying wicked is
good thomas reveals he's been having
dreams of the same thing
and she was in all of them she then
pulls out two syringes from her pocket
with the letters at wckd
just like the tracker they found and
thomas realizes these might be an
antidote for the poison deleter
okay thomas here was smart to put this
information together but he's about to
make a terrible decision
it might be reasonable to assume that
the vials were sent out because alby was
stung by a griever but there's one
problem with this
logic in the history of the glade
they've never sent antidotes for anyone
who's ever been stung before so there's
no reason to think that this case is any
different
it's also very unlikely that the extra
violence is just a backup because this
is not a place of extras and
conveniences
it's a death maze and you're lucky to
even be alive this makes me think that
the vials are not for the leader at all
it sounds cold-blooded but i will not
give alby here an antidote because
there's no information that we need from
him that makes him worth keeping alive
right now min ho is the most important
person in the glade because he knows the
layout of the maze but since he's
already shown us his secret model
even he becomes disposable we can't
ignore that there were two people sent
up that have memories of each other and
there are exactly two vials
if these two kids know more about this
place than anyone else then our top
priority is to keep them alive at all
costs
the maze creators only send up resources
not threats so we know whatever the
effects of this medicine are it's going
to be a net positive
so it should be safe for the two people
who might have insider knowledge on what
this experiment
actually is they show the antidote to
the second in command
and after some convincing he agrees to
let them try to use it on the infected
leader but suddenly the boy grabs thomas
by the collar and starts freaking out
the others rush in to hold him down and
the girl grabs the antidote and jams a
syringe right into his gut
the leader starts to calm down and the
second in command orders a guard to
watch over him but that's when the chief
builder galley enters the hunt to take
the new kid to the pit for his night of
punishment
later that night this little kid chuck
arrives to sneak him some food and
decides to show him a carving he made
he wants to give it to him because he
thinks thomas here has the best shot of
getting out of here and if he ever
manages to escape the maze he can send
it to his parents on the outside
the new kid won't accept the gift it
makes him a promise that they'll all
escape the maze together but it's a
promise he'll soon have to break
the next day the new kid and the runner
go to section 7 deep into the maze
discovering that it's open one week
ahead of schedule inside
they find the bloodied remains of the
runner who was banished days ago and
realized he was eaten by a griever
all of a sudden the tracker they brought
starts clicking and thomas here realizes
that this device might show them a way
to escape the maze
it guides them across a massive bridge
and they slowly walk to the end
but suddenly the tracker's light turns
green and behind them a wall begins to
open
they slowly approach the tunnel but as
soon as they reach the opening a light
shoots out and scans their bodies
detecting their presence
suddenly alarms start blaring and the
sound is terrifying
the boys run out as the walls close
behind them just when they think they've
escaped the ground starts rising up
beneath them and they run for their
lives
this maze is more dangerous than they
even realized and they're
absolutely helpless they climb up a
closing wall and crawl back into the
maze nearly avoiding getting crushed to
death
okay if i was running through this maze
i'd be absolutely terrified
when the entire floor can fold up and
crush you that it's not a place we
should be spending a lot of time and
this
is exactly why they need to climb the
walls if we look more closely at the
journey they took to get here
we can see that there are grooves all
over the place that would help them
climb a lot more easily than from inside
the glade
if we make it to the top then we won't
have to run for our lives every time we
walk inside
and we can get a lot more done to find
out how to escape it will be challenging
to cross the gaps and reach other
sections but this could easily be fixed
by making a ladder bridge with rope and
bamboo
and bringing it into the maze even
without cross-section beam support and
load-bearing pulls of a scaffolding
bamboo has a stronger tensile strength
than steel withstanding 28 thousand
pounds of force
we still have to deal grievers because
they are able to climb walls but it's
going to be a lot easier to avoid them
if you're 300 feet in the air where they
don't notice you
now these two runners found a new
section of the maze and they even opened
a gateway with this tracker
i'll be the first to admit that if i saw
an open door here i would take it and
leave everyone else behind but there's
one detail here they missed that was
telling them how to escape
as soon as they were scanned the alarm
sounded and the door closed
we know that it's not because they have
the wrong tracker so the most logical
conclusion is that when the maze scanned
them
they didn't have enough people to allow
them to pass through going back to get
more people is the only way to escape
this place
returning to the glade they tell the
others there might be an exit but the
chief builder thinks it could get all of
them killed
thomas here confronts him pointing out
that he's done more in five days than
galley has in
three years but their argument is
interrupted when the girl tells them all
that the leader is awake
in the medical hut the new kid tells
alby here that they may have found a way
out of the maze but the leader says they
can't leave
he's recovered all of his memories and
remembers that thomas here was working
with the maze creators before this
the kid can't believe what he's hearing
but they're all distracted when they
hear yelling across the glade
running outside they realize that the
doors to the maze won't close shut at
night is coming
soon this is the most dangerous thing
that could have possibly happened and
there's nothing to stop the grievers
from getting in
that's when all the other walls start to
open up behind them and the new kid
realizes running is no longer
an option suddenly they hear a
horrifying shriek and turn to see
grievers heading straight towards them
okay i don't know about you but these
people are shockingly unprepared for the
situation and should all be embarrassed
personally my very first instinct is to
leave every single one of them in the
dust and lock myself in the elevator
shaft alone
to teach them all a lesson in survival
unfortunately the only way to escape
this place is if we bring more people
back to the scanner inside the maze
the best thing to do is gather the
closest people and lead them to the
elevator
as soon as it's full i'm not opening the
cage for anyone not even my own
grandmother
now it's a bit too late at this point
but there were some very basic things i
could have done
to prevent a worst case scenario like
this the key thing is having obstacles
to stop anything from easily charging
into the glade
a common technique to prevent this is
the cheval de france which is a simple
barricade of long wooden poles and could
have been one of the first lines of
defense
secondly trenches and ditches could have
been used to give the gladers extra
protection
in case they needed to dug out of an
attack instead of building a council
hall they could have dug bunkers
every night they had to listen to the
grievous shrieks and that would have
been the first thing that crossed my
mind all they need is a place of safety
to hide for a single night and they
couldn't even get that right
everyone scatters across the glade in a
panic and thomas here runs through the
cornfield as the monsters start picking
people off
he finally makes it across the glade and
reaches the leader in the medical hut
but more grievers start surrounding them
and there are too many to fight off
together they all run towards the
council hall but one of the creatures
comes crashing through a building
and stops them in their tracks they have
nowhere to run but without hesitation
the girl throws a lantern at its face
and sets it on fire the group makes it
to the council hall barricading the
doors behind them and they all think
they're safe but that's when a griever
shows up and breaks in through the roof
suddenly chuckie gets grabbed by the
griever's tail and is about to be
poisoned but the leader hacks his
stinger off and cuts him loose
they all think it's over but the monster
attacks again and yanks the leader out
of the hut the new kid tries to hold on
to him but with his dying words alby
here tells him to set the boys free
the griever yanks him out and thomas
runs outside to look for him but alby's
gone and the glade is in ruins
outside the chief builder walks right up
to the new kid and punches him hard
in the face blaming him for everything
that happened standing up thomas here
wonders if he might be right but that's
when he notices that the monster's
stinger is still intact
he remembers that the leader's memory
returned after he was poisoned and has a
crazy idea
desperate for answers to escape the maze
the kid jams the stinger into his
stomach and collapses to the ground as
the poison
begins to take effect okay this was
horrible timing
first of all it's not a terrible idea to
inject yourself with the poison and the
antidote
he saw clear evidence that it restored
all of alby's memories and that makes it
totally worth it
the problem is that right now he needs
to be fighting for the future of the
glade and poisoning himself is going to
make it impossible to control what
happens next
when he passes out galileo could take
over and banish him into the maze if he
wants to
if the chief builder was mad enough he
might even confiscate the antidote
before thomas here could get treated
with it
he has no control over the situation at
this moment and that makes it a terrible
idea
i would have waited to resolve the fight
with galli and found a safe place to
test this poison in a controlled
environment
now having said that there's a much
bigger cost of this than anyone
even realizes right now our only
priority is to get as many people as
possible to
follow us into the maze so we can escape
through that doorway but that's going to
be a lot more difficult when we've just
been viciously attacked by grievers
if we're the new kid we should assume
that everyone will be blaming us for
this horrible situation because as soon
as we arrived everything started
changing and now they don't even have a
home we need to make sure we can get
everyone to trust us enough to escape
together and that's exactly why
i would put all the blame on galilee the
chief builder this whole time
he's been making the point that the maze
is too dangerous to explore it doesn't
want anyone to leave
he's also the chief builder so he has
the most knowledge and experience to
build defensive structures for the glade
the fact that this griever attack even
happened is a strong case that galley
should not be leading anyone
he had three years to plan for their
protection and prepare the glade for a
possible attack
but he did absolutely nothing to prevent
it i would use this to drive all the
survivors against him
and once they realize there's no point
in staying in the ruins of their home
they'll leave gally here in his empire
of dirt and join us into the maze to
help us all escape
he wakes up the next morning and locked
inside the pit to find his friend
staring down at him from outside the
cage
they tell him that the chief builder
galley has become the new leader and has
forced everyone to choose between
joining him or being banished
he has convinced the boys that thomas is
the cause of all their problems and
that's when the new kid drops a truth
bomb on them the poison has made him
remember
everything and he reveals that he and
the girl were working with the maze
creators to help study all the kids in
the glade for three years and a massive
experiment
everyone is shocked but the second in
command says whoever he used to be
doesn't matter and right now all they
need to focus on is survival
later the prisoners are brought out to
the maze's entrance to be banished but
the others start to question if the new
kid might be right
the chief builder galley tells them
there is no escaping this place and
since thomas has disturbed the peace he
is going to sacrifice them to the
grievers so that everything will go back
to the way it was before
gabby here orders these two boys to tie
the kid up but when they grab him he
attacks and his friends suddenly join in
the fight stopping the chief builder
from intervening
they all realize that there's no going
back to the way things were before and
thomas is their last and only chance to
escape
the new kid announces they're going to
leave and tells the other boys that they
can't stay here forever but he's certain
he knows how to escape
they run through the maze of thomas
guiding them until they reach the same
bridge they visited before in section 7.
spotting a griever at the end of the
walkway they fearlessly rush forward and
attack it working together to fight it
off with their spears
the little kid and the girl run to the
door with the tracking device when
suddenly a wall opens up and they head
deeper inside the tunnel
more grievers arrive and the boys can
barely hold them off but that's when a
holographic display lights up with eight
numbers flashing and the girl tells
thomas that they need a code to enter
realizing it's the maze's pattern the
runner here yells out the answer as the
group retreats into the tunnel and when
the girl inputs the final number the
walls squish the grievers to death
suddenly a door swings open and they
walk in to find a research lab with dead
scientists all over the floor
watching a video log recorded by the
director of wicked he finds out that
most of human civilization was destroyed
by a shoulder flare
then an incurable virus spread but only
a very small percentage of the remaining
population was immune
to it wicked used the mace as an
experiment to observe their behavior and
try to figure out why these kids were so
unique
all the kids were lab rats and the video
log ends with the woman taking the
coward's way out as armed soldiers
stormed the lab
okay this is a horrifying revelation but
there's one detail here that i find even
more upsetting
when the group walked into the room the
runner kicked the gun away from the dead
guard as though he knew it was a
dangerous weapon but he didn't even
consider
picking it up if it were me i would have
ordered them all to loot the bodies for
both information
and weapons most of them wouldn't know
how to fire a gun because of memory loss
but thomas memory is restored so he
could easily teach them how to use it
at the very least if the outside world
is a wasteland with a dangerous virus
that turns people into rage zombies
we're going to be needing much more than
spears and machetes
suddenly the door to the outside world
opens and thomas here is about to lead
them out when galley appears behind them
and tells them to stop
the chief builder has been stung by a
griever and points his gun at the kid
just as he's about to pull the trigger
the little kid jumps in front of his
friend to protect him as the runner
throws his spear straight into the
builder's chest but chuck here caught
the bullet
he falls to the floor and the little kid
gives him the wooden carving to deliver
to his parents
using his last moments to thank thomas
for his friendship it's heartbreaking
but before they have time to mourn armed
soldiers run in and drag the group
outside
the children are escorted into a
helicopter that takes off giving them
all a view of the maze from above
they finally get to see where they've
all been living for three years in a
single view and it's way bigger than
they ever
imagined meanwhile the director of
wicked is still alive
she was faking her death this whole time
and reveals to a boardroom that the maze
trials were a success
but phase two will now begin but what do
you think how would you beat the maze
runner
let me know with a comment down below
thank you so much for watching leave a
like and subscribe
and check out the how to be playlist for
more videos like this
until next time have a damn good day